
--- PAGE 23 ---

These structures meet the requirements of being temporary because none of them
have a deep set foundation. They are built on stilts and can be moved to another
location. As you see, a green zone could be a great place if you want to build
glamping or something similar to it. The main advantage of a green zone is that it’s
usually located in a beautiful spot like a beach, cliffside, or rainforest and it’s
cheaper than other zones. 
21
An example of non-permanent structures with Green Zone Land in Uluwatu


--- PAGE 24 ---

In yellow and orange zones, you can
build permanent structures such as
villas, houses, and others. However, only
in the orange zone building properties
for commercial purposes are allowed.
Thus, if you are planning to build a
guest house or a restaurant, you should
only consider land plots that are in the
orange zone. 
 
The yellow zone is for residential
buildings. However, if you build a villa
for yourself and then decide to rent it
out through Airbnb, you can still do this
with the yellow zone land. However, it’s
extremely important to get your tax
number and pay taxes from the rental
income (10% tax on revenue from all
bookings). Your villa management
company can get you a registered
NPWD tax number and then pay your
10% local taxes on all revenue from the
property. This is a really easy way to pay
your taxes and you are supporting the
local government that can help with
the infrastructure in the area.
22


--- PAGE 25 ---

The Indonesian government recently
has revised the tax law to encourage
people to invest in real estate within
Indonesia (2020 Omnibus Law
proposal, later then put into motion as
Regulation no.11 the Ciptaker year
2020). If you own a business within
Indonesia you can re-invest your
income into an income-generating
property to delay and reduce taxes.
Currently, dividends are subject to a
10% tax immediately once they are
withdrawn, but if you reinvest the
dividends, you can reduce your taxes to
2.5% and pay them later (Ministry of
Finance regulation No.18 PMK/03/2021
as outlined in article 15).
Let’s take you through the following
example. If you own a company in
Indonesia (PT or PT PMA) that made
you 1,000,000,000 IDR (one billion
rupiah) in one year. 
Option 1: You decide to take this
money and use it somewhere else; the
1,000,000,000 IDR is subject to a 10%
tax and you will owe 100,000,000 IDR
in taxes on year one. 
23
TAX BENEFITS FOR REAL
ESTATE INVESTORS
Option 2: You decided to invest this
amount in Real Estate in Indonesia and
buy a villa. In this case, you don’t need
to pay the 100,000,000 IDR in taxes
immediately. You can generate income
from the rental property, and the
dividends are not taxable provided that
you keep the rental property for a
minimum period of 3 years. After a
period of 3 years, the property can be
transferred to your personal holdings
which will incur a final tax of 10% for
leasehold property or reduced to 2.5%
for freehold properties. You will not
have to pay taxes until later and
generate income off these dividends
while reducing your taxes to
25,000,000 IDR 3 or more years later if
you reinvest in a freehold property.
Therefore, if you have a company in
Indonesia we highly recommend
choosing option 2 and re-investing your
dividends into an income-generating
property to delay and reduce taxes.
Please contact your accountant for
further information on how this might
apply to your business. 


--- PAGE 26 ---

BEFORE YOU BUILD
DETERMINING 
CUSTOMER AUDIENCE
What is your CA age?
Where are they from?
What is their occupation?
What is their income level?
What is their marital status?
Do they have kids?
How do they spend their free time?
Customer audience or CA is people for
whom you are building your project. 
To determine your CA, answer the
following questions:
This exercise will help you to
understand the values, habits,
preferences of your potential
customers. Based on this, you will
determine the design, type, location,
price range, and even marketing
strategy of your property.
24
